---
path: '/blog/gatsby'
date: '2018-09-23'
title: 'Gatsby'
---

There are a lot of static site generators these days. Jekyll seemed to be the most popular back when I was in college, but other systems have since popped up: Hugo is a big one, and Pelican also has a somewhat mature ecosystem. Each generator is always tightly coupled to a particular language: Jekyll uses Ruby, Hugo uses Go, Pelican uses Python.

I've wanted to switch from Jekyll for a while now, mostly because I was never fluent in Ruby and that made writing plugins a huge challenge. I recently saw on HackerNews that [Gatsby released v2.0.0](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2018-09-17-gatsby-v2/), and I'd never heard of it. Turns out it uses GraphQL and React (two things I use pretty heavily at work) and makes it super easy to get started. I was able to follow the tutorial and get a site up and running in a matter of minutes.

The cool thing about Gatsby is that the entire Webpack pipeline is included out of the box, so you get nice things like hot-module-reloading while developing, and everything gets minified for the production build.

### Flow Typing

My team at work uses Flow for static typing JavaScript applications, and I've gotten used to all the benefits that provides: catching errors before they go to production, jump to definition, and remembering what bits of code do what. We also use Relay for GraphQL Javascript apps, which has a compiler that generates Flow types as a part of parsing GraphQL queries.

However, turns out that Gatsby is missing this particular feature, and that means all GraphQL queries are untyped by default. Not good!

Luckily, [Apollo's CLI](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-cli) allows you to generate Flow definitions from any set of Javascript files, regardless if you're using their ecosystem or not. I chained a couple of commands in my `package.json`:

```bash
rm -f src/codegen/graphql/* && \
    apollo schema:download --endpoint http://localhost:8000/___graphql gatsby-schema.json && \
    apollo codegen:generate --tagName graphql  --target flow --useFlowExactObjects --useFlowReadOnlyTypes --queries './src/**/*.js' --schema ./gatsby-schema.json --outputFlat src/codegen/graphql
```

This queries the local GraphiQL instance, dumps the schema to a file, and uses that schema to generate Flow types for all JavaScript files in my `src` directory. I can then import those types from the components that need them:

```js
import type { PostQuery } from '../codegen/graphql/PostQuery';

type Props = {|
  data: PostQuery,
|};

export default class Post extends React.PureComponent<Props> {
  ...
}
```

I've never actually been excited about a static page generator until now, and I've found it super easy to get things up and running.
